Pathfinding Visualizer
An interactive web application to visualize various pathfinding algorithms and maze generation techniques on a dynamic grid. This tool helps understand how algorithms like BFS, DFS, Dijkstra's, and A* explore a grid to find the shortest or most efficient path, and how mazes can be programmatically generated.

Features
Multiple Algorithms: Visualize Breadth-First Search (BFS), Depth-First Search (DFS), Dijkstra's Algorithm, and A* Search.

Interactive Grid:

Draw walls to create obstacles.

Place weighted nodes to simulate higher-cost terrain for Dijkstra's and A*.

Dynamically move start and end nodes.

Animated Visualization: Watch the algorithms explore the grid step-by-step and then highlight the shortest path found.

Customizable Grid Size: Adjust the number of rows and columns to create grids of different dimensions.

Animation Speed Control: Control the speed of the visualization to better understand the algorithm's flow.

Diagonal Movement: Toggle diagonal movement to see how it affects pathfinding and path cost.

Maze Generation: Generate complex mazes using the Recursive Division algorithm.

Algorithm Statistics: View real-time statistics after visualization, including:

Path Length (number of edges)

Path Cost (sum of weights along the path, considering diagonal costs)

Nodes Visited

Time Taken for the algorithm to run

Save/Load Grids: Save your custom grid configurations to local storage and load them later.

Clear Options: Clear only the path/visited nodes or clear the entire board.

Technologies Used
HTML5: For the structural layout of the web application.

CSS3 (Tailwind CSS): For responsive and modern styling.

JavaScript (ES6+): For all the interactive logic, algorithm implementations, grid manipulation, and data persistence.

How to Run Locally
Clone the repository:

git clone <your-repository-url>
cd pathfinding-visualizer

Open main.html: Simply open the main.html file in your preferred web browser (e.g., Chrome, Firefox, Edge). There's no server setup required.

Usage
Grid Interaction:

Select a "Node Type" (Wall, Start, End, Weight) using the radio buttons.

Click and drag on the grid to draw walls or weighted nodes.

To move the Start or End node, select its type and click on a new cell.

Algorithm Selection: Choose an algorithm from the dropdown menu (BFS, DFS, Dijkstra's, A*).

Visualize: Click "Visualize Path" to start the animation.

Controls:

"Clear Board": Resets the entire grid, removing all walls, weights, paths, and visited nodes.

"Clear Path": Removes only the visualized path and visited nodes, keeping walls and weights.

"Generate Maze": Creates a new maze on the grid.

"Animation Speed": Adjust the slider to control the speed of the animation.

"Grid Size": Change the number of rows and columns and click "Apply" to regenerate the grid.

"Allow Diagonal Movement": Check this box to enable diagonal movement for pathfinding.

"Save Grid": Saves the current grid configuration to your browser's local storage.

"Load Grid": Loads the last saved grid configuration from local storage.

Future Enhancements (Ideas)
More Maze Generation Algorithms: Implement other algorithms like Prim's or Kruskal's.

Bidirectional Search: Add a bidirectional search algorithm for faster pathfinding.

Custom Heuristics: Allow users to select or define different heuristic functions for A*.

Obstacle Density Control: Add a slider to control the density of randomly generated walls.

Path Smoothing: Implement algorithms to smooth out jagged paths.

Mobile Responsiveness Improvements: Further optimize for smaller screens and touch interactions.

Visual Feedback for Errors: Display user-friendly messages on the UI for cases like "Start node cannot be a wall."